US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
heads to Israel on Monday as he
continues a diplomatic push to stop the
war in Gaza from igniting into a wider
regional conflict speaking to Qatar
blinkin warned Israel it was imperative
to put a premium on protecting civilians
in Gaza Israel is battling Hamas which
is classified as a terrorist
organization by the US Germany and many
other
countries Anthony blinken on a
diplomatic drive to prevent the spread
of the Israel Hamas
war after meetings in Qatar the US
Secretary of State warned on Sunday the
war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza
could metastasize and threaten Security
in The Wider Middle East in Doha Lincoln
laid out his goals and he had praise for
his
hosts in all of my meetings over the
last two days we've discussed ongoing
efforts to better protect civilians in
Gaza and to get more humanitarian
assistance to them and to get the
remaining hostages out and home with
their loved
ones cutter was instrumental in the
negotiations that led to the
simultaneous release of more than 100
hostages including American citizens uh
and a pause in the fighting that during
that time enabled us to double the flow
of humanitarian Aid to civilians in Gaza
for these displac Palestinians caught in
the crossfire of this conflict in Gaza
help can't come soon enough and the US
Secretary of State made his position on
their status clear Palestinian civilians
must be able to return home as soon as
conditions allow they cannot they must
not be pressed to leave
Gaza but at the funeral of two
Palestinian journalists killed in an
apparent Israeli air strike in the south
of the Gaza Strip the prospect of Peace
seems far
away binkin said the killings were an
unimaginable tragedy and that he was
deeply sorry for the family's loss the
US top diplomats Middle East Tour
continues on Monday with visits that
include Israel and the occupied West
Bank Jason cidonia is the Los Angeles
bureau chief for NBC news radio and
joins us now so blinkin says it is
essential for Israel to do more to
protect civilians and called for more
aid for civilians in Gaza is this a sign
that the US is changing
stance I really believe that he's there
as a show of force and what he
originally said about he doesn't want
the crisis in the Goa strip to uh get
any bigger he doesn't want any other
groups he doesn't want any other
countries to join in the fight for
either side I think that really is his
message him going out there and meeting
with all these other uh diplomats and
and leaders is just a way of saying hey
America's here and if you if we have to
we'll Flex our muscle critics are
already saying that this is a uh all
show noo event where it's not going to
trigger a significant ceasefire or allow
uh Aid to get to the people of of the
Gaza Strip or allow uh the two sides to
somehow come together and and call you
know call it off or call Peace to in
that part of the world right now it's
just being seen as uh America going out
and showing them hey we're involved and
we're keeping a close eye on the
situation at hand all right so America
is attempting to sa face in the region
it seems like and the state department
has also said that it expects hard
conversations when it reaches out to its
Israel Israeli counterparts do they
actually have any tools that they can
still use to put pressure on Israel
after three months of
conflict you know I'm not I'm not
exactly sure what those conversations
are going to entail but I'll tell you
when a when a when a state leader when
the Secretary of State goes to another
country and says there's going to be
hardcomers conversations I'm sure
there's going to be consequences for
actions what those consequences could be
I'm not exactly sure blink has also said
that he wants the Palestinian people to
be able to return home and they
shouldn't be forced out of the Gaza
Strip so that might be seen as you know
changing sides or changing uh the way
America sets up their their allies in
that part of the world uh I can't answer
that but I can tell you that if America
says that they're out there um and 's
going to be consequences that there
there will be um I will say this that
critics of blinkin are saying that he's
an American doing what Americans do he's
going into another country to tell that
country how to run the country and that
may be seen as an offense to the Israeli
government uh we haven't heard much uh
from Netanyahu talking directly to the
president of the United States as of
late um but I'm sure some of this will
will shake the I think I think blink's
out there to shake the trees to see what
what they can do in that part of the
world and the State of the Union so
President Biden will address the nation
in about two weeks or so and I'm sure
this is going to be high on the docket
because it's a very volatile issue here
in the states all right that was Jason
cadonia with NBC News Radio thank you
very much for your
reporting thank
you